---
category: Student
title: Team Assignments
---

### What are Team Assignments?

![](/images/team_navigation.png)

Your instructor will either assign teams or you may be asked to form a
team with your classmates.  Once your team is formed, any member of
the team can submit for the team.  Team submission and review of
autograding & TA grading results is similar to individual submission.

Only one team member needs to upload the submission for the team.
Multiple team members can submit different versions of the assignment,
and by default, only the most recent submission will be graded by the
TA/instructor.  The team shares a submission version history and
timestamps --
see also [Managing Versions / Multiple Submissions](managing_versions.md),

All members can review the submission files, the autograding results,
and the TA/instructor grade.  Everyone on the team receives
the same grade.

Also note that if late days are allowed for the assignment and the
team submits 1 day late, every member of the team will be charged one
[late days](late_days.md).



### Creating a Team

After clicking on the manage team page, you will be given the option
to create a new team or to seek a team or partner.

![](/images/team_invitations.png)

If you select ```Create New Team```, you will be shown the team
management portal. Here you can invite more students and see who is on
your team.

![](/images/team_invite.png)

Once you are on a team, you can view your teammates and their email
addresses through the “Manage Team” portal.

![](/images/team_manage.png)

### Seek Team/Partner

When a user clicks the ```Seek Team/Partner``` button, they will show
up in the table below. From here, other users are able to invite them
through the “Invite new teammates by their user ID” interface
documented above.

![](/images/team_seeking.png)

### Joining a Team

If you receive an invite, it will be shown next to who sent the invite
on the manage team screen. All you have to do is select accept to join
the team.

![](/images/team_invitations_2.png)


### Locked Teams

Your instructor can specify a date after which the membership of all
teams is locked. The manage team button will then change to a view
team button. Once that happens, you will be unable to change your
team.

![](/images/team_manage_2.png)

If you forgot to create or form a team before the team lock date, you
may only accept invitations to existing teams sent before the team or
form a "team of one" that contains only yourself.  Consult the course
syllabus and/or specific assignment instructions regarding penalties
and procedures for team membership management after the team lock
date.

![](/images/team_manage_3.png)


See also the [Instructor Team Assignment](../instructor/team_assignment.md) documentation.